Business Source License 1.1


Parameters


Licensor:                   Source Inc.


Licensed Work:              DefraDB 
                            The Licensed Work is (c) 2020 Source Inc.


Additional Use Grant:       You may use the Licensed Work when your application
                            uses the Licensed Work with a total of less than three
                            server instances for any purpose.


                            You may make use of the Licensed Work, provided that
                            you may not use the Licensed Work for a Interoperable Data 
                            Network


                            A “Interoperable Data Network” is a commercial offering 
                            that allows third parties (other than your employees and
                            contractors) to access the functionality of the Licensed 
                            Work by creating shareable or portable data and schemas 
                            between applications controlled by such third parties. 


Change Date:                2024-10-01


Change License:             Apache License, Version 2.0


For information about alternative licensing arrangements for the Software,
please contact us: license@source.network


Notice


The Business Source License (this document, or the “License”) is not an Open
Source license. However, the Licensed Work will eventually be made available
under an Open Source License, as stated in this License.


License text copyright (c) 2017 MariaDB Corporation Ab, All Rights Reserved.
“Business Source License” is a trademark of MariaDB Corporation Ab.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




Business Source License 1.1


Terms


The Licensor hereby grants you the right to copy, modify, create derivative
works, redistribute, and make non-production use of the Licensed Work. The
Licensor may make an Additional Use Grant, above, permitting limited
production use.


Effective on the Change Date, or the fourth anniversary of the first publicly
available distribution of a specific version of the Licensed Work under this
License, whichever comes first, the Licensor hereby grants you rights under
the terms of the Change License, and the rights granted in the paragraph
above terminate.


If your use of the Licensed Work does not comply with the requirements
currently in effect as described in this License, you must purchase a
commercial license from the Licensor, its affiliated entities, or authorized
resellers, or you must refrain from using the Licensed Work.


All copies of the original and modified Licensed Work, and derivative works
of the Licensed Work, are subject to this License. This License applies
separately for each version of the Licensed Work and the Change Date may vary
for each version of the Licensed Work released by Licensor.


You must conspicuously display this License on each original or modified copy
of the Licensed Work. If you receive the Licensed Work in original or
modified form from a third party, the terms and conditions set forth in this
License apply to your use of that work.


Any use of the Licensed Work in violation of this License will automatically
terminate your rights under this License for the current and all other
versions of the Licensed Work.


This License does not grant you any right in any trademark or logo of
Licensor or its affiliates (provided that you may use a trademark or logo of
Licensor as expressly required by this License).


TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE LICENSED WORK IS PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” BASIS. LICENSOR HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING (WITHOUT LIMITATION) WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND TITLE.


MariaDB hereby grants you permission to use this License’s text to license
your works, and to refer to it using the trademark “Business Source License”,
as long as you comply with the Covenants of Licensor below.


Covenants of Licensor


In consideration of the right to use this License’s text and the “Business
Source License” name and trademark, Licensor covenants to MariaDB, and to all other recipients of the licensed work to be provided by Licensor:


1. To specify as the Change License the GPL Version 2.0 or any later version, or a license that is compatible with GPL Version 2.0 or a later version, where “compatible” means that software provided under the Change License can be included in a program with software provided under GPL Version 2.0 or a later version. Licensor may specify additional Change Licenses without limitation.


2. To either: (a) specify an additional grant of rights to use that does not impose any additional restriction on the right granted in this License, as the Additional Use Grant; or (b) insert the text “None”.


3. To specify a Change Date.


4. Not to modify this License in any other way.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DefraDB Community License Agreement

Please read this DefraDB Community License Agreement (the “Agreement”) carefully before using DefraDB (as defined below), which is offered by Source Inc.

By downloading DefraDB or using it in any manner, You agree that You have read and agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement. If You are accessing DefraDB on behalf of a Legal Entity, You represent and warrant that You have the authority to agree to these terms on its behalf and the right to bind that Legal Entity to this Agreement. Use of DefraDB is expressly conditioned upon Your assent to all the terms of this Agreement, to the exclusion of all other terms.

1. Definitions. In addition to other terms defined elsewhere in this Agreement, the terms below have the following meanings.
   a. “DefraDB” shall mean the NoSQL Peer-to-Peer Embeddable Edge database software provided by Source Inc., including both DefraDB Core and DefraDB Enterprise editions, as defined below.

   b. “DefraDB Core” shall mean the version of DefraDB, available free of charge at https://github.com/sourcenetwork/defradb

   c. “DefraDB Enterprise Edition” shall mean the additional features made available by Source Inc., the use of which is subject to additional terms set out below.

   d. “Contribution” shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted Source Inc. for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, “submitted” means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to Source Inc. or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, Source Inc. for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as “Not a Contribution.”

   e. “Contributor” shall mean any copyright owner or individual or Legal Entity authorized by the copyright owner, other than Source Inc, from whom Source Inc. receives a Contribution that Source Inc. subsequently incorporates within the Work.
   
   f. “Derivative Works” shall mean any work, whether in Source Code or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work, such as a translation, abridgement, condensation, or any other recasting, transformation, or adaptation for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.
   
   g. “Legal Entity” shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, “control” means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.
   
   h. “License” shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution of a Work as defined by this Agreement.
   
   i. “Licensor” shall mean Source Inc. or a Contributor, as applicable.
   
   j. “Object” form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a Source Code form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.
   
   k. “Source Code” form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.
   
   l. “Third Party Works” shall mean Works, including Contributions, and other technology owned by a person or Legal Entity other than Source Inc., as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to such Works or technology.
   
   m. “Work” shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source Code or Object form, made available under a License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work.
   
   n. “You” (or “Your”) shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this License.


2. Licenses.

   a. License to DefraDB Core. The License for the applicable version of DefraDB Core can be found in the applicable license file at the DefraDB GitHub. DefraDB Core is a no-cost, entry-level license and as such, contains the following disclaimers: NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY HEREIN, DEFRADB CORE IS PROVIDED “AS IS” AND “AS AVAILABLE”, AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARE EXCLUDED AND DISCLAIMED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND ANY WARRANTIES ARISING BY STATUTE OR OTHERWISE IN LAW OR FROM COURSE OF DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE, OR USE IN TRADE. For clarity, the terms of this Agreement, other than the relevant definitions in Section 1 and this Section 2(a) do not apply to DefraDB Core.
   
   b. License to DefraDB Enterprise Edition.
      
      i. Grant of Copyright License: Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Licensor hereby grants to You a worldwide, non-exclusive, non-transferable limited license to reproduce, prepare Enterprise Derivative Works (as defined below) of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute DefraDB Enterprise Edition for Your business purposes, for so long as You are not in violation of this Section 2(b) and are current on all payments required by Section 4 below.
      
      ii. Grant of Patent License: Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Licensor hereby grants to You a worldwide, non-exclusive, non-transferable limited patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer DefraDB Enterprise Edition, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by Licensor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.
      
      iii. License to Third Party Works: From time to time Source Inc. may use, or provide You access to, Third Party Works in connection DefraDB Enterprise Edition. You acknowledge and agree that in addition to this Agreement, Your use of Third Party Works is subject to all other terms and conditions set forth in the License provided with or contained in such Third Party Works. Some Third Party Works may be licensed to You solely for use with DefraDB Enterprise Edition under the terms of a third party License, or as otherwise notified by Source Inc., and not under the terms of this Agreement. You agree that the owners and third party licensors of Third Party Works are intended third party beneficiaries to this Agreement.

3. Support. From time to time, in its sole discretion, Source Inc. may offer professional services or support for DefraDB, which may now or in the future be subject to additional fees.


4. Fees for DefraDB Enterprise Edition or DefraDB Support.
   
   a. Fees. The License to DefraDB Enterprise Edition is conditioned upon Your payment of the fees specified on /pricing/ which You agree to pay to Source Inc. in accordance with the payment terms set out on that page. Any professional services or support for DefraDB may also be subject to Your payment of fees, which will be specified by Source Inc. when you sign up to receive such professional services or support. Source Inc. reserves the right to change the fees at any time with prior written notice; for recurring fees, any such adjustments will take effect as of the next pay period.
   
   b. Overdue Payments and Taxes. Overdue payments are subject to a service charge equal to the lesser of 1.5% per month or the maximum legal interest rate allowed by law, and You shall pay all Source Inc.’s reasonable costs of collection, including court costs and attorneys’ fees. Fees are stated and payable in U.S. dollars and are exclusive of all sales, use, value added and similar taxes, duties, withholdings and other governmental assessments (but excluding taxes based on Source Inc.’s income) that may be levied on the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any jurisdiction, all of which are Your responsibility unless you have provided Source Inc. with a valid tax-exempt certificate.
   
   c. Record-keeping and Audit. If fees for DefraDB Enterprise Edition are based on the number of cores or servers running on DefraDB Enterprise Edition or another use-based unit of measurement, You must maintain complete and accurate records with respect Your use of DefraDB Enterprise Edition and will provide such records to Source Inc. for inspection or audit upon Source Inc.’s reasonable request. If an inspection or audit uncovers additional usage by You for which fees are owed under this Agreement, then You shall pay for such additional usage at Source Inc.’s then-current rates.


5. Trial License. If You have signed up for a trial or evaluation of DefraDB Enterprise Edition, Your License to DefraDB Enterprise Edition is granted without charge for the trial or evaluation period specified when You signed up, or if no term was specified, for thirty (30) calendar days, provided that Your License is granted solely for purposes of Your internal evaluation of DefraDB Enterprise Edition during the trial or evaluation period (a “Trial License”). You may not use DefraDB Enterprise Edition under a Trial License more than once in any twelve (12) month period. Source Inc. may revoke a Trial License at any time and for any reason. Sections 3, 4, 9 and 11 of this Agreement do not apply to Trial Licenses.


6. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source Code or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:
   
   a. You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and
   
   b. You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and
   
   c. You must retain, in the Source Code form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source Code form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and
   
   d. If the Work includes a “NOTICE” text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source Code form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License.
   
   You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.
   
   c. Enterprise Derivative Works: Derivative Works of DefraDB Enterprise Edition (“Enterprise Derivative Works”) may be made, reproduced and distributed in any medium, with or without modifications, in Source Code or Object form, provided that each Enterprise Derivative Work will be considered to include a License to DefraDB Enterprise Edition and thus will be subject to the payment of fees to Source Inc. by any user of the Enterprise Derivative Work.


7. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in DefraDB by You to Source Inc., Inc. shall be under the terms and conditions of https://www.apache.org/licenses/cla-corporate.txt, without any additional terms or conditions, payments of royalties or otherwise to Your benefit. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement You may have executed with Source Inc. regarding such Contributions.


8. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.


9. Limited Warranty.
   
   a. Warranties. Source Inc. warrants to You that: (i) DefraDB Enterprise Edition will materially perform in accordance with the applicable documentation for ninety (90) days after initial delivery to You; and (ii) any professional services performed by Source Inc. under this Agreement will be performed in a workmanlike manner, in accordance with general industry standards.
   
   b. Exclusions. Source Inc.’s warranties in this Section 9 do not extend to problems that result from: (i) Your failure to implement updates issued by Source Inc. during the warranty period; (ii) any alterations or additions (including Enterprise Derivative Works and Contributions) to DefraDB not performed by or at the direction of Source Inc.; (iii) failures that are not reproducible by Source Inc.; (iv) operation of DefraDB Enterprise Edition in violation of this Agreement or not in accordance with its documentation; (v) failures caused by software, hardware or products not licensed or provided by Source Inc. hereunder; or (vi) Third Party Works.
   
   c. Remedies. In the event of a breach of a warranty under this Section 9, Source Inc. will, at its discretion and cost, either repair, replace or re-perform the applicable Works or services or refund a portion of fees previously paid to Source Inc. that are associated with the defective Works or services. This is Your exclusive remedy, and Source Inc.’s sole liability, arising in connection with the limited warranties herein.


10. Disclaimer of Warranty. Except as set out in Section 9, unless required by applicable law, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an “AS IS” BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, arising out of course of dealing, course of performance, or usage in trade, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, CORRECTNESS, RELIABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, all of which are hereby disclaimed. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing Works and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under the applicable License for such Works.


11. Limited Indemnity.
   
   a. Indemnity. Source Inc. will defend, indemnify and hold You harmless against any third party claims, liabilities or expenses incurred (including reasonable attorneys’ fees), as well as amounts finally awarded in a settlement or a non-appealable judgement by a court (“Losses”), to the extent arising from any claim or allegation by a third party that DefraDB Enterprise Edition infringes or misappropriates a valid United States patent, copyright or trade secret right of a third party; provided that You give Source Inc.: (i) prompt written notice of any such claim or allegation; (ii) sole control of the defense and settlement thereof; and (iii) reasonable cooperation and assistance in such defense or settlement. If any Work within DefraDB Enterprise Edition becomes or, in Source Inc.’s opinion, is likely to become, the subject of an injunction, Source Inc. may, at its option, (A) procure for You the right to continue using such Work, (B) replace or modify such Work so that it becomes non-infringing without substantially compromising its functionality, or, if (A) and (B) are not commercially practicable, then (C) terminate Your license to the allegedly infringing Work and refund to You a prorated portion of the prepaid and unearned fees for such infringing Work. The foregoing states the entire liability of Source Inc. with respect to infringement of patents, copyrights, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights.
   
   b. Exclusions. The foregoing obligations shall not apply to: (i) Works modified by any party other than Cockroach Labs (including Enterprise Derivative Works and Contributions), if the alleged infringement relates to such modification, (ii) Works combined or bundled with any products, processes or materials not provided by Cockroach Labs where the alleged infringement relates to such combination, (iii) use of a version of CockroachDB Enterprise Edition other than the version that was current at the time of such use, as long as a non-infringing version had been released, (iv) any Works created to Your specifications, (v) infringement or misappropriation of any proprietary right in which You have an interest, or (vi) Third Party Works. You will defend, indemnify and hold Cockroach Labs harmless against any Losses arising from any such claim or allegation, subject to conditions reciprocal to those in Section 11(a).


12. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal or equitable theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts), and notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, shall Licensor or any Contributor be liable to You for (i) any amounts in excess, in the aggregate, of the fees paid by You to Source Inc. under this Agreement in the twelve (12) months preceding the date the first cause of liability arose), or (ii) any indirect, special, incidental, punitive, exemplary, reliance, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this Agreement or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, profits, data or data use, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, cost of procurement of substitute goods, technology or services, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Licensor or Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages. THESE LIMITATIONS SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF THE ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.


13. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing Works or Derivative Works thereof, and without limiting your obligations under Section 6, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold Source Inc. and each other Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.


14. General.

   a. Relationship of Parties. You and Source Inc. are independent contractors, and nothing herein shall be deemed to constitute either party as the agent or representative of the other or both parties as joint venturers or partners for any purpose.
   
   b. Export Control. You shall comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and all applicable export laws, restrictions and regulations of the U.S. Department of Commerce, and any other applicable U.S. and foreign authority.
   
   c. Assignment. This Agreement and the rights and obligations herein may not be assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, by You without the prior written consent of Source Inc.. Any assignment in violation of this provision is void. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and permitted assigns of the parties.
   
   d. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of New York and the United States without regard to conflicts of laws provisions thereof, and without regard to the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act.
   
   e. Attorneys’ Fees. In any action or proceeding to enforce rights under this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its costs, expenses and attorneys’ fees.
   
   f. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, that provision shall be limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this Agreement otherwise remains in full force and effect and enforceable.
   
   g. Entire Agreement; Waivers; Modification. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all proposals, understandings, or discussions, whether written or oral, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and all past dealing or industry custom. The failure of either party to enforce its rights under this Agreement at any time for any period shall not be construed as a waiver of such rights. No changes, modifications or waivers to this Agreement will be effective unless in writing and signed by both parties.